There you go.
Did you have a girlfriend in Sudan?
No.
Do you have a boyfriend?
No one special.
Can you pass my shoes?
Are you jealous?
No.
Liar.
You're jealous.
You don't know what I'm thinking.
I can hear it...in  your voice.
What is it?
I can see you.
There's one of those things
hidden in the stairwell.
Get the others.
They found us.
We gotta go.
Wait here.
Oh shit...Oh Shit.
Emily.
Oh man, what's up?
Tense. Freaky shit.
How did she do that?
I don't know.
The compass is all over the place.
There's a magnetic field here.
It must be the spacecraft.
It's acting as a magnetic monopole.
What's that?
A field with one magnetic pole.
That's why the compass isn't working.
In theory they can exist,
but we've never found one.
My Mum says we're going
to England with you.
It looks that way.
So you think you can protect us?
I don't know.
I can try.
Noah thought he could protect us too.
Yeah, what happened to him?
He was shot.
He was bleeding...
and...there was so much blood.
I tried to stop it
but there was nothing I could do.
Take what you want.
We leaving.
If the signal came from here ...
it must have crashed
when we locked on to it.
Do you think there's a connection?
I don't know.
Should they be doing that?
No, but the men need it...
they need to feel some
sort of control.
I'm not sure that helps much.
And if the roles were reversed?
What if you were one of the soldiers?
What would you feel?
Despair.
We're leaving.
What were you doing?
I don't know.
There's no colours.
It's black and white.
It's like it...
It's like it...forms in front of me.
Does that only happen
when you hear the sound?
It happened before at the hospital.
Can you hear it now?
We can't stay.
They know we're here.
We're going to the university
where Bill works.
What about Dad?
We should be going home.
Oh, we will.
But right now we should
stay with the others.
What does that mean?
It's the time the attacks started.
There must be other
people out there.
Hello?
Sacha!
I'm going to check upstairs.
It's a back up generator.
Are there other ways
into the building?
There's a door down the back
and there's fire escapes
in the stairwell around there.
This way guys.
It's pretty gruesome isn't it?
That's Darwinism in action.
The strongest genes survive.
Is that why they're killing us?
I don't think it's
as simple as that.
Maybe they're just evil.
They get off on it.
They want to live.
They're scared of dying.
Why do you say that?
I can feel it.
Muscular Dystrophy
What are you thinking?
About what?
About what happened...
with that thing.
I don't know.
It looks like you had sex
with a freak.
You're not a freak.
Then what am I?
You're beautiful.
Shut up!
It's true.
I thought you were beautiful
from the moment you pissed
on me in the shop.
You're making jokes now.
I'm just trying to make
you feel better.
What happened...to your family?
Government soldiers came
to our village.
They killed them.
Why?
They are Dinka.
We are Nuer.
We've always fought each other.
I can't imagine how you begin to
deal with something like that.
I joined the White Army.
The militia.
I wanted revenge
for what they did to my family.
You killed people?
Maybe now you think
I'm a freak?
Or worse.
If someone did that to my family
I think I'd want to kill them too.
Then you have lost everything.
Even yourself.
Whatever is happening to you...
you saved all of our lives.
Maybe we should be grateful for it.
You're not lost.
Is that what's making Emily see again?
She seems to think so.
Ah, perhaps it's some kind of sensor?
Maybe it's a processor too?
So she's not blind any more?
You know there's a phenomenon
called "blind sight"?
Where a blind person...
can know where an object is
without physically seeing it.
They can take up a cup
without thinking.
Isn't that because she can
remember where it is?
Not always.
You know, when you and I
process the world,
we fill in the gaps.
It's what's called consciousness.
And although a blind person
has less information...
Because their eyes are fucked.
I wouldn't put it quite like that
but they do have an
enhanced consciousness.
There's something on this.
What is it?
It's like...
a binary code.
So what's the score with your girlfriend
and these things?
I just saying 'cause
it's not normal, right?
We don't know what it is.
You're right, we don't.
Maybe that's a problem.
She saved us.
Did she?
Is that what was happening?
Like I said, I just saying...
Maybe you say too much.
Well, you wouldn't be the first person
to tell me that.
Someone's still out there.
Sorry about Noah.
How's Sacha?
You think he's okay?
What do you mean?
I don't know.
They seemed closer.
Were they close, or...?
Why do you ask that question?
I was just curious.
Did he say something to you?
No.
Tomorrow we'll go back
at the observatory.
Keep your boots on..
Just in case we have to leave suddenly.
Thanks.
I used to have a...
simple life.
My biggest problems were
drinking too much..
and not getting enough exercise.
I wanted to leave the army.
Why?
I d seen too much.
The things people are capable
of doing to one another.
You begin to find it normal.
You have to.
What did you do besides your work?
I worked a lot.
And looked after Sophia.
She was an addict.
To what?
Pills, alcohol...anything.
I tried to help her...
but I'd had enough.
I couldn't...
I couldn't take it any more.
So I kicked her out.
If I hadn't done that...
If we'd kept in touch...
But when I called I only got voicemail.
She should have been with me
at the observatory.
No.
She needed me...
and I abandoned her.
It sounds like you did all you could.
Try to get some rest.
I couldn't sleep.
Yeah, you okay?
Do you think there's a
reason we survived?
Aye, we're just lucky.
What if it...
it's more than that?
Yeah, like what?
I don't know.
What are you doing?
They have cool stuff.
I'm not sure you should be doing that.
They don't need it.
They're dead.
What do you think?
Just put it back.
You don't tell me what to do.
I'm not sure how your Mum would feel
about you stealing other
people's things.
It's not stealing if they're dead.
What were you and my
Mum talking about?
What?
You were talking about me?
Your mum was upset.
She was talking about Noah.
You think she cares about Noah?
He knew nothing.
Why are you even here?
We're not your family.
It's just the way things
have worked out.
It's the way things are now.
Maybe they'll change.
Just get some sleep.
No one wants to see that.
Is there any water?
Do you want me to get you some?
I need to pee.
Nobody wants to hear that.
Why's this happening to her?
I think it's connected to
the genetic mutation
that gave her the Stargardts.
I carry the gene and
it's not affecting me.
What about your husband?
No, it's...it's just me.
Jonathan's not her biological father.
It didn't change the way
he felt about her.
He just never felt the same way about me.
I'm sorry.
Emily doesn't know.
Of course.
Do you have room in your pack?
Yeah.
Come and eat something.
Did you sleep well?
You look rested.
Grab yourself some breakfast.
Is this your daughter?
Yeah.
Can I get it back?
Come on, give it back.
Is everything alright?
Sorry.
I should take over from Ash.
Go on, then.
Say it.
I'm worried about you.
We're being careful so
you don't need to.
I'm not worried about you
getting pregnant.
Really?
That's new.
Emily.
I can see again.
Do you have any idea how
amazing it feels?
We don't know why it's happening.
It doesn't matter.
What happened with that creature...
You can't just be grateful for it?
I'm too fucking scared to be grateful!
I'm trying to keep us alive!
Really?
What exactly have you done, Mum?
What have you done?
I'm trying.
That's amazing.
Good job.
Want some company?
Sometimes I think...
if we're going to die
maybe it's better to get it over with.
You don't mean that.
Don't I?
When I knew Dan was dead
I found some sleeping pills.
I was going to use them.
Why didn't you?
I couldn't do it to Bill.
Your children are alive.
You're all together.
Maybe that's as good as it gets.
It's Tom's birthday today.
He's 15.
I don't think he's even realised.
I always made a big fuss of him
on his birthday.
But with everything that's
happened to Emily
she got so much attention, so...
his day.
We should throw him a party.
I'm serious.
We survived.
Now, we've got to live.
Fuck 'em, you know?
We passed some shops,
they're not far.
Maybe we could all use a party.
Next.
Stop.
Jesus Christ.
What is it?
It's a map of our DNA.
They're scanning our DNA.
All this stuff seemed like
such important shit.
Now, who gives a fuck.
Has anybody seen Helen?
Not for a while.
I think she was with my Mum.
Help me!
Daisy!
This way.
It's going to be okay.
Push.
Push!
Where were you?
God, what happened?
We went to get some stuff
for Tom's birthday.
God.
I was so...
I was so worried about you.
I'm fine.
Happy Birthday!
Make a wish.
It's from me.
Thank you.
I love you.
I love you too.
There you go.
How did you get...
This is from me and Bill.
Thank you.
Happy Birthday, Tom.
I've got something for you.
It's not my birthday.
I'm sorry.
It's okay.
They are fresh.
You're fresh.
So is this.
I want you to teach me
how to use a gun.
Where have you got to
with these things?
They seem to know much more about us
than we do about them.
I think they're scanning our DNA.
Why?
Ash said they took babies
from the hospital.
It could be connected.
What is it?
The woman we tried to save....
One of these things was
dragging her away.
She was pregnant.
Why are they interested in babies?
I don't know.
You'll figure it out.
I have to keep watch.
Would you...
Would you like me to keep you company?
Yeah, I'd like that.